Its alarming how similar your life was to mine when it crumbled,
As though a parting gift... A painful realisation by which only I could be humbled.

I've always hated you,
Your way of being, your disregard,
How such an amazing woman you were able to scar,
Your lack of expression, your romantic ease of distraction,
The way you spoke, or not, without any fearful need of retraction,
But above all... I hated how often I was told I look like you with a passion.

Whatever kind of compliment it may be,
Whatever truth I might've not been able to see,
It hurt. Because, among everything, I had absolutely no clue
That I had yet to become even half the man I was compared to.

You were a wonderful soul. Kind, but lost,
And I don't blame you. I, too, am lost.
I know now how much that solitude cost,
I know now what similarities I'd glossed,
I've no idea how these feelings I could've tossed.
I know I could have learned so much from you.
I see now why she still loves you.

I'm sorry for all the unkind words I may have said,
I know now how much, from them, you've most definitely bled,
I've bled so much from so much less,
And I know, every time I did, that hatred of you naturally managed to regress...
Because I feel now that the love you did show was clouded in guilt,
And I know now how my actions, even as a child, had caused that love to wilt.

I'm sorry I write this now, only after an immense and long reflection,
To isolate yourself from all you know, all for us, that kind of showcase should require no introspection,
I'm sorry that I beg only now, beyond any point of correction,
But I will succeed, for you, and her, by whatever means necessary, even if it becomes my person's only sense of direction.

Thank you for sacrificing yourself in the ways that you did to provide me this lesson,
I've raised myself vicariously through my image of a man whose absence I could not lessen,
But whose presence I've engrained into my being without any possibility of concession.

I have so much more to add, so many more words to write,
I wish you could know how much my life has gone right,
Because you left right as I made that turn,
But I could not even manage to let you know from outside an urn.

I'm good now. I've laid a foundation I'm sure you'd be elated about,
I just feel like I could've have made an effort for your life to have taken a different route.

Maybe if I had let you come near
Maybe you would still be here